---
layout: post
title: 1.17.0 Released
permalink: news/release-1-17/
---

This is a rollup release for various bugfixes / improvements(?) that made it into code but haven't been released.

### Highlights:

- The electrical tools (axe / pickaxe) now have treecapitation and area-mining modes. These are enabled by defaults; right-click to toggle.
- The portable battery packs have been buffed accordingly. You may still need more than one for continuous mining.
- The 200V machines are now significantly faster, but draw more power. This may give the 50V machines a niche further into the game. Be careful not to explode your base.
- Creosote is now a valid fuel for the fuel heat furnace.
- An improved flashlight with significantly more range has been added.
- Various bugfixes to the PID and other chips.
- The autominer now supports ores with multiple item drops.
- Most/all icons have been swapped for more easily recognizable versions.
- There is a new emergency lamp item, which can be powered off an internal battery.
- There is a new 'scanner' item, which in principle duplicates the functionality of the vanilla comparator, but outputs an analog circuit signal instead of a 0-15 redstone value. It may or may not work.

 This update can be downloaded from CurseForge [here](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/electrical-age/files/2937618).

Progress is continuing (somewhat faster) on the rewrite/port, now targeting Minecraft ~~1.15~~ 1.16 or newer, as of Feb 14, 2021.

No warranty included.
